---
layout: post
title:  "Re: Presidient Trump: How & Why"
date:   2016-11-16 00:00:00
categories: politics
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GLG9g7BcjKs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen style="margin: 45px 80px"></iframe> 
 
Yes Johnathan. I 100% agree.  And with with 3.3 million
views, apparently I’m not alone. But I want to pick this
apart. I don’t think this isn’t as simple as you’re is
making it out to be. The heart of his argument is at 3:50
when you say: “The left is responsible for this result
because the left have now decided that any other opinion,
any other way of looking at the world is unacceptable. We
don’t debate anymore because the left won the cultural
wars. So if you’re on the right, you’re a freak. You’re
evil. You’re racist. You’re stupid. You are a basket of
deplorables! How do you think people are going to vote if
you talk to them like that? When has anyone ever been
persuaded by being insulted or labeled?”
 
Someone watching this may interpret what he’s saying as
people on the left need to “calm down” or “they’re not
helping the cause.”
 
Roxanne Gay a feminist writer, professor and editor
perfectly nails the response to the “you’re not helping the
cause” argument on the [latest episode](https://megaphone.link/FL1506108297) of [Politically
Reactive](https://www.politicallyreactive.com/).


  > **Host (Hari Kondabolu)**: I keep hearing that you can’t be
  angry when you talk about race in this country, you can’t
  antagonize white people. You have to tiptoe around because
  if you antagonize white people this [a Trump presidency]
  will happen. And I’ve heard people say that before and
  after this election. The idea you have to tiptoe around
  people’s feelings. I am so furious that it is a problem to
  say what the problem is, to show emotion and to expect
  human decency if making those claims with any passion is a
  problem then what are we doing?!
  
  > Have you had to deal with it have been told: “tone it down,
  it’s not helping the cause?” Have you dealt with that? How
  do you deal with that?

  > **Roxane Gay** Oh yeah I deal with that all the time. Not only
  about dealing with race but about dealing with gender,
  dealing with feminism dealing with LGBT issues. People
  always say, that we need to work together. Even last night
  and today I’ve had well meaning people but well meaning
  white people send me messages that say, “love trumps hate”
  which I think is one of the stupidest catch phrases to rise
  out of this entire thing.
  
  > And I’m actually writing about this right now, all these
  ridiculous catchphrases that rose out of the campaign. Love
  doesn’t trump hate. It really doesn’t. We have so much
  evidence including last night. So stop saying “love trumps
  hate” or “they go low we go high”: nonsense. I hate being
  told not to be angry because anger is an appropriate
  response to so much of the injustice that marginalized
  people face. If you’re not angry then you’re not paying
  attention. Something is really missing if you’re not angry.
  And when people are saying don’t get angry, what they’re
  really saying is don’t make me uncomfortable. Don’t make me
  have to confront my privilege. Don’t make me have to change
  the comfortable circumstances in my life in order to really
  create change. Actually, the thing that will make me the
  angry the fastest is to tell me not to get angry. Or stay
  calm. Fuck you. You stay calm.
  
  
There’s truth in both arguments here. The left has
alienated people by labeling and insulting them but these
insults were in many if not all cases very warranted.
 
So what do in situations like these? What’s the solution?
 
I don’t think that there’s a clear answer. Those who are
oppressed deserve to feel hate which may result in insults
and making people uncomfortable. We can concede that “work
together” is not always the best solution but at the same
time still have to try to make progress together.
 
It’s common these days to find your group, define your
beliefs and indulge yourself in human emotion. Every group
has a group to hate and group to worship. On the left you
can indulge in hating ignorant racist bigots. On the right
you can hate the elitist left who’ve become such an echo
chamber of political correctness that has lead to it’s own
demise. But this isn’t an accurate description of either of
these groups. In reality the world is more complicated than
that. It’s possible that 2 groups both have valid points
and we have to figure out how best to proceed.
 
One pattern in unhealthy systems I’ve noticed is they will
show symptoms of being unhealthy. You can’t make something
healthy again by trying to suppress the symptoms. In PSS
145 - “Turfgrass Management” Sid Bosworth taught us if your
lawn has dandelions and dead spots you don’t need to spray
weed killer and plant more grass. You need to make sure
you’re watering and giving the grass enough nitrogen
fertilizer to flourish. When the grass is healthy again the dandelions will die off and the deadspots will fill on on their own.

An increase in racism, sexism and xenophobia are problems
that need to be addressed directly but they are also
inflamed as symptoms of a greater problem. When resources
are limited people turn against each other. Our country is
sick and racism, sexism and xenophobia are weeds in our
lawn. Our country is losing it’s place as a world
superpower that prides itself on justice and equality. You
can listen to Noam Chomski blabber on about neoliberalism
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jnc1Ay6X1bg) (It’s actually pretty entertaining) but it basically
comes down to the fact that big money has too much
influence in our political system. Both the left and the
right agree on this. We also have many fewer jobs due to
globalization and automation. Both the right and the left
agree on this too.
 
Another system which shows symptoms of weakness is an
unhealthy relationship. If there’s something deeply
troubling going on all of the subtler problems will
amplify. You’ll argue about whether to rinse the plates
before putting them in the dishwasher or about who’s hair
is where in the bathroom. When this happens you either need
to solve the underlying problems by communicating and
finding common ground or you need to breakup. And while
things are scary right now, I’m not ready for this 240 year
relationship to be over. Not yet.
